+++
title = "A Tale of Jekyll and Hugo"
author = ["Matthew Rothlisberger"]
lastmod = 2020-09-23T21:49:24-04:00
draft = true
weight = 2002
+++

## Getting Started {#getting-started}

When I chose to pursue this project, I had a few important goals. Here is
a list of the qualities I wanted my site to have.

-   Hosting should be free. I'm not interested in paying for a domain
    name or hosting until I have a good reason to do so.
-   I should have complete control of content and format. No irremovable
    themes, no "proudly powered by x" footer.
-   It should be easy to publish content. I don't want to have to muck
    around with HTML when I am just writing a blog post.
-   The site should be light, fast, and responsive. The less there is to
    design, and the fewer dependencies, the better.
-   I should understand every part of my site, and the process by which
    it is published. This is a learning exercise as much as anything.


### Resources {#resources}

-   <https://orgmode.org/worg/org-tutorials/org-jekyll.html>
-   <https://opensource.com/article/20/3/blog-emacs>
-   <http://jmcglone.com/guides/github-pages/>


### GitHub Pages {#github-pages}

Free hosting along with total control over the site is a high bar, but
thankfully GitHub has been offering this service for some time. I
began by creating a new public repository with the name required by
Pages: `asterane.github.io`. When I got going with this project a few
days ago, I created a folder on my machine with the same name. GitHub
Pages automatically integrates with the static site generator Jekyll,
which is where our story leads next.


### Jekyll {#jekyll}

The premise of Jekyll is simple: you provide content for your site as
Markdown or as HTML files containing only a `<body>` section. This
content is assembled into pages using HTML layouts provided by you or
by a premade theme. You can use a templating language called Liquid in
your Markdown or your HTML to dynamically create page content as
Jekyll runs. Liquid can do things like list all blog posts, or add
HTML tags to a code snippet for highlighting.

Final pages for your site are dynamically generated by Jekyll, but
then served statically. You cannot have a backend, or any databases,
which is just fine for a simple site like this one. In a way, Jekyll
serves as a linker, combining your content with layouts to create full
pages that are ready for a browser to display. To test out your site,
it is important to install Jekyll on your own computer.

Jekyll comes as a Ruby gem (a package written and distributed in
Ruby). It's possible to use `gem install jekyll bundle`, as
recommended by the [quickstart guide](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/);
it was easier for me to use the Arch User Repository, which provides
the relevant gems as distinct packages. After running `jekyll new
asterane.github.io`, a new default Jekyll site was created on my
computer. To check it out, I ran `bundle exec jekyll serve` and
navigated to <http://localhost:4000>.


## Generating Content {#generating-content}

My love affair with Emacs began shortly after my senior year of high
school was abruptly truncated by the aforementioned pandemic. I will
undoubtedly be writing more about Emacs in the future, but suffice it
to say that this tool has no equal. I knew that I had to be able to
create my site using Emacs. What's more, I wanted to write all of my
content in Org mode, the todo management and document creation system
included with Emacs.


### Org Publish {#org-publish}

Test
